+++
title = 'Modeling Observations and Data'
weight = '20'
icon = 'bar-chart-2'
tagline = 'ARCTIC develops models for microgrids to support Alaska’s energy transition to renewables, relying on high-quality, location-specific data for accurate and efficient operations.'
+++
Model development and validation for microgrids and other location-specific energy systems is a foundational activity of the ARCTIC program and Alaska’s energy transition. The shift from dispatchable fossil fuel driven generators to variable renewable inverter-based energy sources is driving the need for power system modeling across all time scales. Thus, whereas in the past, power system models were not necessary for most of Alaska’s remote microgrids, such modeling is necessary today to ensure stable, reliable, and efficient operation as rural communities integrate more variable renewable resources to offset the high cost of diesel-based generation.  Similarly, for larger systems such as the Alaska Railbelt electric grid, more comprehensive and detailed modeling is now required. These models require quality data from the environment, energy systems, and economic landscape for model training and validating model outputs.  High quality, Alaska-specific data is key to applied research and aids data driven decision-making. Reliable access to this data is critical to all aspects of the ARCTIC program from education, energy and economic research, technology deployment planning, and in interactions with decision-makers and community rights- and stake-holders. The ARCTIC program supports the infrastructure and workforce required to collect, analyze, and transform these critical data sources.